docs/TESTING.md, before:

# Testing Guide

This document provides instructions on how to run the different testing environments for the Wisdom Pool Server.

## Prerequisites

**Docker Desktop:** All testing scripts rely on `docker-compose` to build and run the application containers. Please ensure **Docker Desktop is running** before executing any of the scripts.

**Java (for local emulator):** The local database emulator for Firestore requires a Java runtime (version 21 or higher). This is only needed for the `run_server_local_db.ps1` script.

## Running the Server for Manual Testing

The scripts for running the server are located in the `ztest/` directory. You should run them from the root of the project directory.

### 1. With a **Live** Firebase Database

This setup connects the server to the actual Firebase project database. It's useful for testing with real data and for running scripts that interact with the live database.

-   **Script:** `ztest/run_server_live_db.ps1`
-   **Command:**
    ```powershell
    .\ztest\run_server_live_db.ps1
    ```
-   **Server URL:** `http://localhost:8000`
-   **API Docs:** `http://localhost:8000/docs`
-   **Database:** Connects to the live Firebase Firestore.

### 2. With a **Local** Database Emulator

This setup runs a local instance of the Firestore emulator. This is ideal for development and testing without affecting live data.

-   **Script:** `ztest/run_server_local_db.ps1`
-   **Command:**
    ```powershell
    .\ztest\run_server_local_db.ps1
    ```
-   **Server URL:** `http://localhost:8000`
-   **API Docs:** `http://localhost:8000/docs`
-   **Database:** Uses a local Firestore emulator. Data is not persistent between runs.

## Automated Tests

To run the automated test suite:

-   **Script:** `ztest/run_automated_tests.ps1`
-   **Command:**
    ```powershell
    .\ztest\run_automated_tests.ps1
    ```
This will start the necessary containers and execute the tests defined in `ztest/test_api.py`.

Commit message:

Add user progress tracking and river feed endpoints
- Added authentication module (app/auth.py) with Clerk integration
- Implemented user progress tracking endpoints:
  - POST /api/v1/user/progress - Record user's current position
  - GET /api/v1/user/session-sync - Get user's last active context
- Added river feed endpoint (GET /api/v1/pools/{pool_id}/river)
  - Returns streams with user progress for each stream
- Added new models: UserProgress, UserState, StreamWithProgress, RiverFeedResponse
- Added users_collection to db.py
- Updated API.md documentation
- Added test coverage for new endpoints
- Removed outdated design documents
- Fixed import errors in user.py and river.py

docs/TESTING.md, after:

# Testing Guide

This document provides instructions on how to run the different testing environments for the Wisdom Pool Server.

## Prerequisites

**Docker Desktop:** All testing scripts rely on `docker-compose` to build and run the application containers. Please ensure **Docker Desktop is running** before executing any of the scripts.




### 1. With a **Live** Firebase Database

This setup connects the server to the actual Firebase project database. It's useful for testing with real data and for running scripts that interact with the live database.

-   **Script:** `ztest/run_server_live_db.ps1`
-   **Command:**
    ```powershell
    .\ztest\run_server_live_db.ps1
    ```
-   **Server URL:** `http://localhost:8000`
-   **API Docs:** `http://localhost:8000/docs`
-   **Database:** Connects to the live Firebase Firestore.


---

## Convenience Script for Live DB

If you are frequently running the live database server, you can use the following PowerShell commands to quickly navigate and start it. You can save this as a `.ps1` file (e.g., `start_live_server.ps1`) in the root directory for easy access.

```powershell
C:\Users\Home\Dropbox\___WisdomPools\wisdom-pool-server-02
ztest/run_server_live_db.ps1
```
